good morning everyone
I'm Travis Brown and the imaging
technology manager for Mac os10 and I
want to welcome everyone to session one
32 which is graphics and imaging tips
and tricks what we're gonna be talking
about in today's session or two things
the first is something we think is a
great opportunity for carbon developers
and that is to better define for you the
interaction between courts 2d and
quick-draw and we think there's a great
opportunity for carbon applications to
look at using some of Mac OS tens very
powerful graphic graphic technologies to
deliver things such as PDF support you
know anti-aliased graphics all sorts of
interesting possibilities for features
for your users secondly what we'll do is
we'll concentrate on performance issues
with courts in general courts has a
piece that we've talked about a little
bit during this WWC called the courts
compositor which essentially abstracts
you from the screen unlike Mac OS 9 and
earlier where you had direct access to
the screen you don't have that in 10 and
therefore there's a little knowledge we
need to communicate with you to it with
regards to how to optimize your
application in this environment where
your pixels are essentially being
buffered by the quartz compositor so I'd
like to get started because we have a
lot of information for you today so let
me introduce David gelfman he'll
continue the presentation from here hi
I'm David Gilman can you hear me okay
I'm David Gilman I work in the graphics
to imaging group primarily on printing
but that sort of takes me off into some
other area so I get to do a little bit
of work in quick-draw a little bit of
work in the courts 2d system so as I was
lying awake in bed last night thinking
about this talk and sort of anticipating
it you might say I thought about the
first developer conference that I came
to in 1987 and at that conference Apple
had just recently introduced the Mac 2
and was new technology was color
quick-draw and
Apple had sort of hidden in the
background some new stuff they were
gonna show us it was something called
multi finder
so anybody remember that so yeah so to
me it's really exciting to be here
talking about something besides
quick-draw input most part core graphics
quartz 2d as we call it and here's the
agenda for today we're gonna start
talking about how you can use quartz do
2d in your carbon-based application on
Mac os10 the cocoa people for the most
part get it free it's easy to use it
it's you know they have cover routines
for a lot of the functions you might use
but we're going to talk about how you
can use it in your carbon application
that sort of leads us to talking some
about printing on Mac OS 10 specifically
we're going to focus a lot on the carbon
printing graph board on Mac OS 10 it's a
different kind of graph port than you've
seen before on Mac OS and I think you'll
see that we've done some interesting
things there then my colleague Ralph
Brunner is going to follow up and talk
about performance tuning of your
application when you use ports or just
when you use anything in carbon and
cocoa so just as a way of sort of
getting started as you've hopefully seen
during the conference quartz has very
powerful 2d capabilities the imaging
model of the quartz 2d system is
consistent with the PostScript imaging
model which is a very powerful mature
imaging model for those of you that have
been using PostScript generation
yourself where you been using postscript
picture comments we think that you're
going to want to move over and start
using quartz 2d instead of generating
your own PostScript it's going to have
some pretty significant improvements for
your application that is on all the
imaging devices when you go to print
you're going to see really high quality
rather than the quick-draw drawing that
you were doing when you were printing to
raster devices in the past when you're
using quartz 2d you're going to see the
really high quality now this talk is
going to assume that you have some
familiarity with quartz 2d we're not
going to talk all about the imaging
model I am going to touch on some things
that are relevant specifically for
people they're probably coming from a
quick-draw base background and this is
just a reminder
kourt's 2d and quartz the system is a
Mac listen Mac os10
only technology it's not something
that's in carbon lib so I'm going to
start by getting a little demo so if we
can get the demo machine up over here so
the first thing I have here is just some
really simple drawing that we've done
some of this is drawing with quick draw
some of it's drawn with quartz 2d yeah
and I've got the little pixie
application here which is just a sort of
a fat bits equivalent where we can
magnify the screen we can come over here
and look at hopefully people can tell
which is the which are the lines that
are drawn with quartz 2d and which of
the lines that are drawing with quick
draw the quick draw line the you know
the ends of the lines have that square
pin that hangs down you can look with
the pixi application if you look over on
the right-hand side here where we can
see how jagged that line is if we move
over and we look at the next line over
here of course we're looking at a line
that was rendered by quartz 2d if we
look at the end of that line you can see
it's a nice butt end cap it's
antialiased along the line I don't you
know as you're far away you probably
can't see the difference in quality but
of course if you're looking at a screen
and you see that anti aliased line it
really looks a lot better a lot sharper
and then of course just to just for fun
I did a little bash line that something
is trivial to do using quartz to D now
this middle portion here I have a couple
of ovals and I think as you get far away
it's a little harder to tell but I'll
look at it here with pixie and you can
see now this is actually not an oval
that I've drawn using quick draw what
I've done here is I've made an oval mask
region that I use to clip or as a clip
region that I use to clip some drawing I
just have a big rectangle that I'm
clipping through an oval of course you
get essentially the same result if you
do the oval itself but if you look at
the edges here you can see how jagged it
is if we look over here what I've done
is I've set a clip that's the same oval
using quartz 2d and I've just drawn the
same rectangle and you can see it's nice
and antialiased along here and again on
screen you see this jagged behavior
with quick-draw and of course it looks
nice and smooth now one of the reasons I
did this is a clip rather than just
drawing an oval when you go to print if
you've done clipping what we do is we're
going to take the if you've done
clipping with quick-draw we're going to
take that region clip that you've
supplied and we're going to turn that
into a path the courts 2d path and when
we do that well regions are
device-dependent
they're resolution specific so to do
that what we're going to do is we're
going to make a little path that's a
bunch of jagged lines just like that and
that's what you're going to see now if
you draw using courts 2d what you're
going to see at print time is you're
going to see a nice smooth clip so of
course you know you wouldn't really draw
an oval this way but this is just to
give you an idea of what kinds of things
you can do with courts 2d and how that
actually translates into your real
imaging the last thing here I've got
some text here on the left-hand side
I've drawn text with quick-draw and on
the right hand side I've done context
with courts 2d one of the things that
especially small point sizes it's a
little hard with pixee to see I hope you
can see it when you display it the
difference of course the text with
courts to D is antialiased nice
clean-looking text one thing that's
really nice is the weight of the text as
you get go through the point sizes with
a sort of waterfall text the weights
nice and consistent looks real smooth
when you look with quick-draw you tend
to see sort of the chunky gradations as
the text increases in point size on this
page what I have is a couple different
things first of all I mean I've already
shown you we've mixing courts 2d drawing
with quick-draw and a window here but I
just we've got a picture here that I'm
drawing with quick-draw using draw
picture and I've also taken some text at
using atsui text drawing and we can
apply the usual courts 2d
transformations to the coordinate system
get different effects I haven't done
anything particularly fancy but it's
really trivial to rotate text you want
one of supplies other special effects
you can do that one thing I put on here
because I want to emphasize something I
think is really important we'll talk a
little bit about in just a second about
the details of how to do it but this
zebra picture here is a PDF file that
I've just drawn on my page here and the
zebra that's rotated I've done the same
way is just
PDF that I'm drawing I've rotated the
coordinate system before I've drawn it
using courts 2d but I don't want to
emphasize this really easy to support
PDF in the system it's just essentially
like drawing a picture very easy to do
and you know even if you're not thinking
of adopting some of the other things
that we're doing with courts 2d consider
seriously adding PDF support to your
application I did a little thing in here
for fun excuse me which is I applied a
clip now to the drawing before right
before I actually do that last zebra so
I drew a text character but before I
actually do the text character I set the
text rendering mode in courts 2d to be a
clip then after I did that I drew the
zebra I just drew the PDF it's really
easy to get these kinds of effects ok so
let's go back over to the slides can we
go back over to the slides please thank
you okay so I told you how easy PDF
import is I'm going to show you how easy
it is now of course this little example
is importing from a file I've assumed
that you already have an FS ref that
points to a file if you don't have an FS
ref but do you have an FF spec there's
an easy way to get an FS ref okay from
the FS ref you can create a URL CF URL
this is part of corefoundation once you
have a you a CF URL you can make a call
that's part of core graphics part of the
courts 2d cg PDF document create with
URL you get what's called a PDF document
from that that's the doc that I have
here from that we can get the media box
which is essentially the bounding box of
the graphic here get the bounding box
for that and in this case I'm just going
to draw with that bounding box into my
context which is the CTX parameter it's
the courts 2d context draw the document
that's it that's to draw the first page
of a document you can also find out the
number of pages in the document so on
and there's other bounding boxes that
you can get besides the media box but
that's it now if you say oh I don't have
my data as a file on disk or a URL
really because you can really have URLs
here of course if you were in the courts
to the discussion you would heard about
data providers where you can have
there's a
generalize mechanism so you can provide
the data for the PDF document so this
was just the simple one for a file so
again
straightforward use of courts 2d drawing
even for a quick draw based application
okay so now how do I get started I'm
really hyped about doing this let's get
to it okay so the first thing of course
is you need to have what's called a CG
context in order to draw into all of the
courts drawing routines to expect that
you're going to draw into CG context
it's an explicit parameter that you
provide to the drawing routines
there's no set port like there is in
quick draw you're going to pass in the
context to all the drawing that you do
so the CG context is something like you
might think of as a courts drawing port
instead of a quick draw draw report now
one thing that's really important to
realize is that a CG context has a
graphic state that's associated with it
the quick draw graph board does also it
has the usual things the pen size the
font the font size the background
pattern the foreground pattern you know
all of that stuff well there's similar
kinds of things that are part of the
graphic state of a CG context such as
there's a separate fill color and a
separate stroke color there's a separate
fill color and Stroke excuse me separate
fill color space and stroke color space
there's a clip there's a line with those
kinds of things all those parameters are
on the cg context and now when you're
drawing when you get one of these things
from quick draw or if you're using quick
draw at the same time that you're using
a cg context that you got for for a
graph port you should realize that those
graphic states are completely
independent there's no sharing of the
graphic state if you go and you set a
color on the quick draw port that's not
reflected in your cg context so when you
go to use courts 2d you're going to set
the parameters in the courts 2d context
for your drawing okay so let's start
just I think some real basics and like I
said I'm not going to talk a lot about
how you use courts 2d but I think these
are relevant things for developers
coming from a quick-draw background the
first thing is that the coordinate
system is based on the PostScript PDF
coordinate systems it was a fundamental
decision by Apple to follow the PDF
imaging model this is the coordinate
system in the PDF imaging model standard
Cartesian coordinates X goes to the
right across the screen or across the
page Y goes up and the origin is in
lower left corner of the window or of
the port rather or of the page okay so
this is what it looks like this is the
relationship between the coordinate
systems the quick dark coordinate system
the courts 2d coordinates this is sort
of the standard relationship when you
get a CG graphics context report the
quick draw coordinate system as always
top left corner courts 2d bottom-left
corner y going up now the relationship
between the origins is initially at
least if you haven't changed the port
origin the relationship between the
origins is based on the port crack type
that's the height of the port okay so
there's a couple issues if you're used
to drawing with quick draw apps are used
to that quick draw coordinate system
where it's in the top left corner of the
port the vent coordinates are returned
in the quick tile coordinate system in
some apps when they switch over to using
the the courts 2d imaging system they
sort of want to keep all along keep
using that top left corner with the
coordinate system flipped okay well
there's a couple ideas one is you can
actually transform your coordinates on
the fly yourself if you want to the
relationship between the quick draw
coordinate system and the kourt's 2d
coordinate system I showed you on the
picture before you can calculate the
port bounce height you can compute from
a given quick draw Y you can compute a a
Y for that would be suitable for courts
2d coordinate system drawing so you can
do that yourself now there's some
disadvantage of just doing this kind of
transformation and one of them is that
as you start rotating and scaling the
courts 2d score system something you
can't do with quick-draw now this kind
of transformation gets a little messy
because now your coordinate system is
transformed so just some other ideas
here's what I called approach B which
was using courts itself to do coordinate
transforms for you now when you draw
with the courts to coordinate system
you're drawing in what's called user
space and that's malleable by the
application you can scale it translate
it rotate skew it do whatever and courts
2ds always doing transforms on user
space coordinates that are supplied by
your application when you draw into
device space or into the space of the
actual
device you're drawing on via the printer
be it on screen whatever now you can
piggyback off of those transformations
that course 2d is already doing for you
by simply making your own matrix that
you can cat to what's called the CTM the
current transformation matrix from user
space in the device space you can
piggyback off those transformations and
here's what that's what I'm doing here
so I make up a transform there's in CG
affine transform H there's a whole bunch
of stuff about transforms you can read
about and you can make a translation
transform in this case I'm translating
by the port downs height that's that
that's the thing that connects the quick
thar origin to the core graphics to the
courts 2d origin and then in addition
I'm going to do a further transform on
that transform by scaling it by flipping
it so I made Y minus y so at that point
if I actually take that transform that I
built up this QT transform that I built
up and I can cap that to the coordinate
system that's already part of my context
here represented by my context parameter
here now I have a flip coordinate system
and I have the origin of my quartz
coordinate system in the top left corner
of the port okay well it's all great
start drawing your graphics you do your
line art you do your ovals you do
whatever well wait a minute when I go
and I start drawing text using out Sooey
I find that it's I got a little problem
here which is my text is flipped because
we flipped the coordinate system and
when you draw text with that soui into a
into a CG context they're expecting
upright coordinate systems and that's
learned okay well it's a tips and trick
so here's maybe something you can
consider you could actually modify the
approach a little bit it's a little bit
of a pain but what you can do is before
you draw your text you unfit a system so
normally you're going to draw into a
flip coordinate system but before you go
drawing text you're going to flip it the
only thing you have to do is unhook the
coordinate system at that point you want
to use minus y coordinates instead of Y
coordinates because now we're gonna
you've got the origin in the top left
corner and Y goes down so we'll be using
minus y coordinates but that's what's
involved there okay now let me just
emphasize the only reason you would need
to consider using some of
these approaches is if you want the
courts 2d coordinate system when you go
to draw to match the quick-draw
coordinate system they're familiar with
if you're comfortable drawing with an
upright coordinate system go for it
don't bother with all of this
one other thing to say is in CG affine
transform dot H in the header file there
are some additional transforms that let
you take points and transfer them
through the matrix to get a new point
that's transformed so if you'd rather do
your coordinate transformations using CG
by transforming the coordinates not by
transforming the coordinate system
that's part of the CG context you can do
that yourself also let's talk just for a
second about text drawing hopefully
you've had an opportunity to go to some
of the text drawing carbon text drawing
sessions here at the conference we
discourage use of the low-level quartz
API for drawing text it's really not
suitable for international text
international text I mean if you've seen
some of these demos and the kinds of
things that people need to be able to do
with international text all of that is
layered on top of the courts 2d
coordinates just the courts 2d imaging
system but they are really providing the
facilities for drawing international
text so the recommendation is look at
and use Atsui and MLT e for drawing text
into a CG context and they've talked a
little bit about how to do that in that
in those sessions just to give you an
idea of how straightforward it is if
you're already familiar with using that
so we draw text drawing you know that
you're going to use a layout for drawing
your text all you need to do is add a
tag to that layout that's what I'm doing
here in this sample code adding a tag to
the layout then I actually draw the text
the way otherwise whatever the tag that
I'm adding just says that I'm adding a
CG context and I pass a pointer to that
context so I'm supplying the context to
that Sooey
now all of the coordinate system
transformations and so on the color all
of those things are used from the CG
context assuming for example the color
you haven't made as part of your layout
okay that would override the color that
would be in the CG context okay
so I've given you a bit of an idea about
some of the issues maybe of drawing with
a CG context how do you get
well there's a routine create CG context
report what that does is you give it a
port it gives you a CG context for them
you can start drawing into that CG
context there's a couple other helper
routines that you may need to use one of
them I can't say these without looking
at them sorry sync CG context origin
with port what that does is when you
call that it resets the current
transformation matrix on the context of
the default that removes any scaling or
anything that you might have provided it
then resets the CG context origin so
that it has that relationship between
the port origin and the CG context
origin so for example if you've done a
set origin in in quick draw now you want
to and you want to tell the CG context
that you're using associated with that
port that you've done that that's when
you call this routine then there's also
a clip CG context to region where you
supply a clipping region and that will
reset the clip on the CG context to that
that you're supplying here ok so when
would you do these things window
resizing so you've made your window
bigger or smaller you're gonna have to
reset the clip because the VIS region on
the window or the clipping region rather
on the window it's gotten larger you
want to sync that up you want to tell
the CG context that you've got a bigger
clip and then if you're scrolling or you
for other reasons you change the port
origin now you need to synchronize your
CG context with the port origin okay all
right well I'm mostly a printing guy so
I've got to talk about printing what
about printing so I've sort of divided
up the kinds of applications these again
or carbon applications I divided them up
into three categories the first category
is our favorite kind of application on
Mac os10 that's an application that when
imaging during printing the only thing
that you're drawing into the printing
port so to speak or the only thing
you're trying to image is something or
all the content is drawn using only
quartz 2d so that's the first type of
application so all them all the contents
image with quartz 2d now you say well
you know maybe I'd like to do that but I
have all this legacy data that's
I've got these pic files and I got to
use draw a picture well we recognize
that that's an issue and so what we're
adding to Mac os10 coming soon is a
routine that allows you to take a quick
draw picture and draw that into a CG
context and I have a little demo that
sort of like doing that and you'll get a
chance to see that now we want to hear
from you about what other kinds of
quick-draw content other things you're
drawing into a graph board that hey
right now you don't know how to draw
into a CG context because if that's
what's preventing you from moving over
to courts we want to know what that is
and we want to fix that and by the way
you know you probably can do it we just
need to give you some ideas about how to
do it and maybe we can add some more
convenience things in the future okay so
that's the first type of application
your application soon to be only imaging
using courts 2d when printing alright
second type of application is what I'll
call a quick tour only out it's the vast
majority of Carbon applications today
it's what you're doing online when you
were printing you were drawing with car
quick draw in something in some fashion
and then the third type is in a type
that we want to talk about also which
are applications that are going to mix
their drawing so they draw with both
quick draw imaging and courts 2d imaging
at printing ok and that might be an
application for example you say well I
don't really want to move over to courts
2d but man I like this PDF import I
really want to do that or maybe you want
to do almost everything with course 2d
but there's still a little bit of crypto
stuff that you haven't quite gotten
weaned off of ok so I'm going to talk
about printing issues with these three
types of applications in that order now
before I do so I need to say a little
bit I mean I know everybody knows about
the printing architecture on Mac os10
and I'm boring everybody but it just
helps me to remind myself how it works
so printing architecture on Mac OS 10
it's really completely different than it
is on Mac OS 8 9 we've totally rewritten
the backend of printing the front-end of
printing it's all totally different the
api's are similar very similar for
carbon apps but we've really rewritten
the underlying printing system so a
couple things that are important to know
about it the printing system completely
leverages quartz 2d when actually both
imaging print
time at spool time that it's built into
the printing system all the printing
that you do generates a PDF spool file
is an intermediate representation for
the graphics that you draw in your
application it's the same printing port
both for raster printing and for
PostScript printing you don't have to
worry about driver X and driver Y it's
the same graph port has the same
characteristics both of those regardless
of what the back-end printing device is
we're going to split out a PDF now the
good thing about this I think all your
customers are going to like all our
customers are going to like is you're
going to get high quality imaging on all
printing devices ok so again I'm talking
about an application it only does courts
2d imaging during printing now these are
carbon applications and by default the
printing systems set up so that when you
actually start printing your document
we're expecting to hand you a quick tour
graph board because carbon quick draw
that people think of them together
that's the default graphics context that
you get at the time that you go to draw
is quick draw so before you actually
start printing you need to tell the
imaging system that you're going to use
what we core graphics courts 2d those
are the same thing so what I have here
is we need to create a CF array that has
one element in it and that one element
is a CF string that we've predefined
called KPM graphics context core
graphics ok you're going to draw with
core graphics courts 2d when you're
imaging at print ton that's all you're
going to do so before you actually call
this routine p.m. session began document
which is beginning the printing process
before you do that you need to set up
this array you need to call a routine
that tells the printing system that's
the format and that's the type of
graphics context that you're going to
draw with so you're gonna say p.m.
session set document format generation
with the print session you got when you
created your print session and then you
pass in you want to do format PDF which
by the way is the default but you're
reinforcing that and you're gonna pass
in this graphics context array then you
release that array because we hang on to
it you release it this is a classic way
of using corefoundation ok so now you've
told the printing system that you're
going to use courts 2d at image
so how do you get your graphics context
that's associated with the the printing
system at print time well you ask the
printing system this is just what you
would do if you weren't using core
graphics it's a little bit different
because now you're saying okay I want
the core graphics context from the get
graphics context p.m. session get
graphics context okay now you have a
context of CG context that you can draw
into using court student you can't draw
any quick draw if you only draw into
that courts 2d graphics context alright
one thing that's different about the
graphics context and the coordinate
system this different than you might be
familiar with with carbon printing that
the the origin of the coordinate system
is the lower left corner of the sheet
okay now when you're doing carbon
printing you probably familiar with the
fact that the origin of the coordinate
system is the top-left corner of the
image buleria of the page so this is a
significant difference not only is at
the bottom left corner it's not the
bottom-left corner of the image area
it's the bottom left corner of the sheet
okay now that's for your applications
drawing only using courts 2d so what
about your application that's drawing
using only quick draw or some quick draw
let's start with the only quick draw now
as I said the spool file that we
generate during printing is this PDF
spool file now quick draw applications
they don't know how to generate PDF so
what we do during the printing system is
we translate the quick tile imaging that
you do into the port into the core
graphics courts 2d drawing and we're
going to generate that spool file for
you now how do you actually get your
graph port you do it the same way as you
do you don't need to set call it you
don't need to set this up before you
start your printing but add after each
page p.m. session begin page call after
that you're going to go and you're going
to get your graphics context which is
going to be a quick draw port and you're
gonna image into that now let's talk
about that port because that port is
completely unlike any graph port you've
seen before it's something like a hybrid
quick draw raster driver printing port
and a postscript like graph board
so I jumped ahead a little bit of second
ago because we need to have PDF spool
file of course applications that draw
with quartz 2d drawing can produce that
natively by just using quartz 2d
directly however during print time we
need to translate any quick-draw drawing
that you do into quartz 2d drawing and
therefore generate PDF from now this is
true both for quick-draw pure quick-draw
applications and also applications that
mix both quick-draw and quartz 2d we
have to translate the quartz the
quick-draw portion into quartz 2d
drawing here's that here's what that
looks like you do your quick tile
imaging calls we replace the quick-draw
port bottlenecks with bottlenecks that
translate that quick-draw drawing into
quartz 2d drawing so that's that second
box that blue box that's the translator
that turns into quartz to the imaging
calls and as you know we're hope you
know by now
the quartz 2d imaging system can produce
from those draw those drawing calls a
PDF file ok well the process of doing
this translation is very similar to
doing this kind of thing that we've done
with Poe script printing with the laser
writer driver for years the quartz 2d
imaging model is essentially the
PostScript imaging model what we've done
is we borrowed techniques that we've
used with the laser 8 driver to do this
translation from quick-draw
into the quartz 2d imaging model we've
tried to get results that are consistent
with the laser at r8 driver wherever
possible because that's something that's
very familiar to people we think that's
a win for you and for customers all
right so I'm going to talk about not
only similarities with the laser r8
driver but also differences and again
let me just say what we're talking about
is the translation on Mac OS 10 from the
quick-draw drawing that your application
does into the printing graph port into
quartz 2d drawing into PDF ok so we use
that same general approach like we did
for laser writer 8 we're using the same
line layout algorithms that we use for
laser writer 8 line layout algorithms
are used because frequently in
quick-draw the metrics are different in
your quick-draw fonts and so on than
they are in both PostScript for laser
router 8 and in PDF so if you're using
integer font widths for example well
going to turn those into fractional
usage of fractional widths on phones we
do layout in order to adjust the
differences with regard to images we
have the same quick draw transfer mode
support that we have in laser router 8
for one bit images we support all the
transfer modes except the XOR transfer
modes which we can't support for deep
pix Maps anything deeper than one bit we
support the source copy mode we don't
support into the other transfer modes
however coming soon we're gonna have
support for the quick-draw transparent
transfer mode transparent transfer mode
is where the background color in the
graph port is used as a transparent
color so any pixels in your image that
have the same color as the background
color in the graph port they're
transparent when you draw your image ok
more similarities to the laser 8 driver
we do pattern substitution so if your
application draws with patterns which by
the way you actually always are because
the port has a pattern in there that's
using for all your drawing when you do
line art what we do is we map some of
the patterns into great grayscale colors
or Greg levels I hope this is clear
what's happening here in the slide it's
certainly clearer in the front of the
room maybe than the back but on the top
I've got several different patterns
let's see what that looks like dot
patterns and what we do is for certain
combinations of the dot patterns we map
those into gray levels so you can see a
much smoother appearance in the drawing
and by the way of course if there is a
real pattern like there is in this brick
pattern we're going to we're going to
generate that pattern ok some other
similarities with laser router eight we
also support many of the picture
comments that are supported during
printing on Mac OS 8 9 so some of them
are the text alignment picture comments
text rotation and flipping polygon
smoothing where you can draw with cubic
Bezier graphics rotation where you can
have different kinds of quick tile
graphics and before you draw your
graphics you can tell the imaging system
to rotate you can't do this on screen
but the printing system knows how to
deal with that
- lines fractional with lines so
something other than a
normal pen sizes with fractions of a pen
and also color sync support so on Mac OS
8 9 you could tag your data with picture
comments that provided color sync
profiles and we respect those and we'll
use those color setting profiles to draw
the graphics as calibrated route the
calibrated color if you use those
picture comments I have some examples of
a couple of these things in the little
demo I'm going to do so differences from
laser 8 well I think the big one that
probably many people run into is that
PostScript picture comments are not
supported when you're printing in this
print graph board there's no way to take
these PostScript picture comments and
turn them into PDF without having a post
crypt interpreting we don't have a
postscript interpreter in the PDF
printing system so the PostScript
picture comments that you would generate
are ignored they're dropped on the floor
we don't do anything with them instead
in this bit in this manner we act
something more like a quick-draw driver
what you might be familiar with on Mac
OS 89 where the portion if you say
PostScript begin and then you draw with
some quick-draw and you draw some Posca
picture comments and you say PostScript
in a raster driver on Mac OS 8 9 uses
the quick-draw drawing at that point and
that's what we do here on Mac OS 10
because we're not a postscript driver we
use the quick door representation so
that also means for example if you have
an EPS preview that you're doing you
don't just want to say PostScript begin
and omit a whole bunch of postal code
and end you want to draw that preview
image also and we will use that preview
image instead of the EPS data ok
well that's one of the big differences
there's also another difference in
something we think is better and
hopefully going to help you that is
we've added for the first time to Poe
script type of driver we've added
support for quick tour regions that is
you can have a quick tour region that
you click with that you fill that you
frame arbitrary regions are supported
now of course their device dependent and
you might be unhappy with some of the
results you get and that's of course of
one of the reasons why we're pushing you
toward using courts duty but we are
supporting it so that's a good thing
another thing is that we've basically
fixed a bug
which is that now when you draw with
your patterns patterns quick draw
patterns respect the port origin laser
router a driver didn't respect the port
origin when doing patterns we fixed that
so let's say you had your ducks like
this you had your ducks all lined up and
you were drawing with the origin at the
corner of the graphic with the laser
eight driver we're gonna use the
original zero zero port origin with the
printing system on Mac OS 10 we're going
to respect the port origin so you'll get
your ducks in the right place okay let's
move over to the demo machine so I'm
gonna
so I have a couple of images that I want
to show you this is a little application
and I wrote it's essentially leveraging
this draw picture into CG context
routine that I told you was coming soon
in Mac OS 10 on the left hand side here
I have a picture that I found on
actually I don't know where I found this
picture picture that came to me and this
is drawn using draw picture on the right
hand side in this window the same
pictures drawing drawn using core
graphics using quartz 2d it's
essentially drawing through a port which
has this bottle extra place as they
would be during printing so I hope you
can see some of these some of the
features of this first of all we do
pattern substitution let me use the
mouse here to maybe point a little bit
over here we this is a normal quick draw
pattern that gets substituted with the
gray level here all the text here all
the Texas anti-aliased all of the
graphics int aliased this is the quick
draw version of course over here is the
courts 2d drawing what else do we have
here that might be an interest just
anyway of course the goal here is at
print time we want to get the best
quality we can and we think translating
this into coarse 2d is going to give you
better quality even when you're using
quick-draw so I've got a couple others
oh one thing that's sort of fun want to
mention one thing I added this little
app is Oh a little save as PDF because
this window on the right hand side here
is drawn using courts 2d if I create a
PDF context rather than getting the
context for the window and I do that
same drawing into that PDF context I get
a PDF file so I'm gonna make it really
easy to get PDF out from your
applications
here's another drawing oops
it's a highway map that we got again
here's the quick draw version of that
and one of the there's a couple things
that are shown here you can also see if
I can bring this up here you can also
see a pattern substitution going on here
here's the quick-draw pattern over here
is a nice smooth grayscale the lines of
the map here are drawn using polygons
but at print time the polygon picture
comments are being used so we interpret
those picture comments and now you get
nice smooth lines not only an EI list
but smoothed out because they're drawn
as busy as all the text is anti-alias so
if you look at the text in here over
here text looks a lot better and oh and
look here's some rotated text here it
really is this text this is a bit image
of course that's done is the quick draw
representation but here it's really
turned into drawing with it font okay I
got one more
so I mentioned about color see the
left-hand side I've got a pic that's an
image it's actually using this
particular ones extreme example it's
using the color sink picture comments
and I'm drawing this with draw picture
there is a draw a matched picture that
will let the imaging system handle that
with quick draw but I'm just using draw
picture here and over here on the right
I'm not using draw picture I'm using or
rendering using courts 2d and it picks
up the color sync picture comments and
draws in the calibrated color space
somebody's clapping good I like that
okay well one of the things this is sort
of tip you know like to add a few tips
and tricks since that's the way we were
advertised and one of them I think you
might be interested in this is the PDF
that we're generating for one of those
graphics that I had and when you start
to look you know if you're if you're
familiar with PDF then you might be
interested in looking at if you're not
familiar might be interesting a little
bit of the about the PDF that we
generate however for performance reasons
and file size wise file size reasons
we're generating PDF that has many of
the streams in the PDF file compressed
it's using the flate encoding
so here's the data that represents the
the PDF data that's generated by the
printing system and it's compressed well
for developers we thought okay maybe it
would be helpful to you if you want to
look at that data to not have it be
compressed and I wrote a little app here
that's a printing preferences app that
you know talked about a couple of the
Preferences that are on here so by
default the printing system is going to
compress the PDF data as its generating
the spool file and you can turn that off
with this little application if you
uncheck it and save that then when you
go to print your PDF if you go to look
at the PDF you'll see it's not
compressed any longer you can actually
look at it in clear text just another
couple things about this particular
application if you were in Paul Dan
Voltz talked yesterday you learn that
the printing system can generate
something that's called a job copy for
the PostScript data that's being sent to
the output device so for debugging
purposes it's not a save to save the
PostScript functionality that a user
would use but I know we in the printing
team and I think a lot of developers
appreciate the ability to see what
PostScript is being sent to the printer
as part of the printing path especially
if you're generating your own PostScript
in some situations or you just want to
understand what's going on you can turn
this on you can choose a location by
default us and slash tab that location
needs to be writable by all just because
of the way the printing system is run
you can set a new printing new location
for these the files that get generated
or based on the job name so you really
do get distinct files for each print job
and you can go and find them and look at
them if you do need to now this last
thing is a job status log printing
status log rather and this is basically
the data that's coming back from the
PostScript printer module that gets
logged if you turn this feature on and
it goes into the temp directory so this
would be a very specialized developer
that would need this you want to see
what's coming back from the printer from
the PostScript job onto the PostScript
printer module but you can also turn
that on okay so I uncheck this and I'm
gonna save that and I'm gonna quit this
and I'm gonna go and I'm going to print
and now this is something I do and I
think other people might find this
interesting also which is it's very easy
to get the PDF from the printing system
you just say print preview
there's the PDF oh well I like to look
at the
all the time so what you can do here
this is this project builder open drag
that here it is open it there it is
okay now remember I checked on comprar
don't compress the PDF stream so here is
the PDF stream from that printing okay
so for those that are familiar with PDF
file we're just drawing an image here
we're setting up a coordinate system
drawing an image but it's very easy to
get that so let me just see if there's
anything else I want to talk about I
think that's it so go back to slides
thank you okay so we've talked about
what happens when you draw with quick
draw and print let's talk about if your
drawing with quick draw and courts 2d
and doing courts 2d imaging during
printing so I think the most important
thing and the number of developers have
run into is that this routine that I
talked about create CG context report if
the port that you have is the port you
got from the printing system this
routine fails you get an error you can't
get a CG context from that port now the
reason is is as I've talked about the
printing system itself that's
translating quickdraw graphics into core
graphics drawing into courts 2d drawing
the printing system share has a CG
context associated with this translation
that it's doing now if you start drawing
into that yourself there's some
synchronization problems that we have
because we you know the printing system
thinks that it owns that CG context and
it can change the color and it can
change the clip and it can do all the
stuff in it if you start going in and
doing those things we can't do our job
so to work properly doing this we need
to have careful state management of
quick draw and courts 2d drawing at
print time ok now we're working really
hard to resolve these issues let's talk
about what it's going to look like well
we need to enforce some kind of modality
into this to separate the drawing that
you might do into this CG context from
the drawing that the quick draw to
courts 2d translator would do it print
time so we've added some routines or we
are adding routines to
Mac os10 in the future these are not in
Mac OS 10 version 10 point oh point X
and the routines are QT begin CG context
and QT NCT context now these routines
unlike the get context report these
routines work both for screen drawing
and for printing so if you're only doing
screen drawing you can keep using this
CG context create context report but if
you're doing printing you want to use
these new routines now in order to
enforce the fact that we have this
modality where you're doing your cg
drawing and then you're doing your quick
draw drawing and then you're doing your
core graphics drawing and then you're
doing the record quick draw drawing in
order to enforce this when you actually
call these routines on a port we take
the bottlenecks in the port the imaging
bottlenecks and the port and we make
them non drawing bottlenecks okay so
both on-screen and printing quick draw
drawing that goes on in between the Qt
begin CG context and qtn CG context that
quick draw drawing is going to be
ignored one other thing is you're when
you call CG in excuse me qtn CG context
that's CG context that you got from the
beginning routine goes away you have to
get a new one next time you want to do
your drawing with courts 2d okay it
sounds hard it's not here's the way it
looks so you start you don't have a
context for the you don't have a context
to draw into you have a port you call QT
begin CG context passing the port you
pass in a point of your context you get
a context back so now you go and you do
some core drawing using courts 2d so in
this case I'm just using the CG context
draw a PDF document similar to what I
did before and drawing a PDF document so
you're done drawing your PDF document
you're done for now drawing your courts
2d content and you now we're going to
draw some quick talk content of whatever
sort you call qtn CG context you pass in
the port you pass in the pointer to the
context that you had that you got from
the beginning routine now that value
that you get back from this routine that
context is null
you can't draw out of that context any
more if you have another
way of hanging on to that you're gonna
be really surprised when you try and
draw into that okay so now you do your
copy bits or whatever other quick draw
imaging that you need to do and it's
time to do some more core graphics
drawing some more drawing with quartz 2d
you go you get your context again now
when you go to get the context again
it's important to know the graphic state
the G state on that context is it is
reset to an initial graphics initial G
state so it doesn't remember whatever
transformations you might have done
between the last time you use to begin
and CG context okay
so you get it get it again you do some
more courts 2d imaging and so on okay
now we want you to start moving over to
this style if you're using the courts 2d
system and so in order to facilitate
that we've written some code that you
can link into your application you can
start getting start using this style
rather than using the create context
report again this is this printing issue
okay so these routines work both the the
real routines that are going to be in
the future version of Mac OS 10 work
both on-screen at print time this
linkable code does not enable printing
but it lets you move your use of core
graphics of courts 2d over to the style
of mixing both quick-draw and core
graphics so again if you're only drawing
with quick-draw or if you're only
drawing with courts 2d this does not
apply so we have some linkable code does
not enable printing it doesn't install
these bottlenecks that dummy out the
quick-draw drawing in between but it
lets you get going okay well tips and
tricks I got it I hope I gave you a
little bit of a tip or a trick with the
demo but let's talk about some printing
tips first thing number one most
important don't expect that when you say
PostScript begin draw some picture
comments post gripped in there that's
going to generate PostScript you need to
do something really special Paul Dan
bolt talked about how to do that if in
the praying session so you need to do
something really special if you want to
generate your own PostScript by default
the printing system doesn't generate
PostScript well let you generate
PostScript okay so in addition don't
expect that you can use PostScript begin
in PostScript pen to hide quick draw
draw
Lots applications do this on Mac OS 8 9
they say ah well it's the laser rider
driver you know so it's not going to you
know pay attention to the quick-draw
drawing that I'm doing in between post
creep again and hey we recognize that
quick-draw and we're going to image it
okay so the next one here is if you're
someone who likes to actually go in and
call the bottlenecks the quick-draw
bottlenecks directly make sure you check
that graph board make sure that those
bottlenecks are nil or don't exist
already in the graph board before you go
off and call standard bits or standard
text or whatever because if there's
support bottlenecks you want to chain
any calling that you make any calls that
you would normally make in the standard
bits or standard text or whatever you
want to call the port bottlenecks okay
and the last thing there is no pixmap
mapping backing up the imaging that
you're doing at print time so don't
think you can say oh though I've got
some bits there and I can scroll call
scroll bits you'll crash you just get
garbage probably on Mac OS 8 knowing you
crash on Mac OS 10 okay now there's some
documentation we have out there on the
Mac OS 10 printing graph port it's
already been written it's already been
out there for probably I don't know
maybe even 10 years but close to it and
that's the documentation that's in
Appendix B using picture comments for
printing pretty much what it says in
there is true mod modified by some of
the things I've said here there's some
picture comments in there that say yeah
these are going away you don't want to
be using these hey these went away you
don't want to be using those okay now
coming soon we're working on a tech note
that's specifically about the Mac OS 10
printing graph board it's going to
contain the material that I have in this
talk expanded ok so let me just give you
a summary so far we hope you see that
there's both my talk and obviously talks
earlier in the week with far more
impressive things in them you can really
do some cool stuff with quartz 2d and
Carbon on Mac OS 10 in carbon ok the
printing graph port it's not like a
graph board you saw before it recognizes
all these picture comments but it's not
a postcard graph port it's not a
quick-draw graph
it's this sort of hybrid and just
emphasize again applications can mix
courts 2d and quick-draw drawing content
on screen and at print time the mixing
is going to take the form of these new
routines that I've described okay that's
the summary what I've given you so far
what about making it all go fast and to
talk about that my colleague Ralph
Bruner on the graphics team okay so I
will talk about course performance
tuning and in the next 15 minutes you
will learn something about how to
improve your graphic speed or to do
about memory usage and most importantly
how to find performance problems okay
first like to say something about how
the architecture in Mac OS 10 works
the graphics architecture on Mac OS 10
there is a process running in the
background called the windows server and
that process is responsible responsible
for managing screen real estate so when
an application creates a window it will
go and send a message to the window
server and say well I need a window that
size that's that's what and the window
server will go and allocate a buffer for
that window map it into shared memory
with that application and any
application can go and draw into these
bits
well when the application is down
drawing it sends again a message to the
windows server and says okay now here
are the new bits I want to put them on
screen and the minnow server will do
that now
the important concept here is that the
window has a backing store so all your
all your content is buffered and that
has some implications for how you do
graphics first of all what it gives that
to you is the window server is able to
mix the content of your application with
the content of any other application so
that enables things like the drop
shadows you see Genie effects scalable
dark and things like that now you have
to be aware that whenever you do a
manipulation of your window that is no
longer as lightweight as it was under OS
9 because pretty much everything you do
with windows that affects the window
geometry is actually a message that goes
over to a different process and tells it
what to do one other implication is that
window buffers use a bit of memory so
the last thing you want to do is
allocate a lot of windows which are not
on screen but just eat up some memory so
two tips here one is primarily for cocoa
applications it's a bad idea to go
allocate the window at a certain size
and immediately resize it to a different
size because that essentially means the
window server will allocate some memory
then it will get a request well toast it
away I really want to change my mind up
on something else and that is fairly
common when you have a default size in
your nib file and then set it to the
window size that the user said it last
time to so if you can avoid that that is
a nice performance game something from
the carbon side of the world
some Carbon applications online and use
an off-screen G world to buffer the
window content so on 10 this is
counterproductive because you already
have a buffer so you just double the
memory size for the window and you do an
additional copy so if you can avoid that
that helps too
another thing for cocoa applications in
interface builder we have this little
flag that says you can make the window
one shot well one shot windows are have
the property that when they go off
screen the buffer is automatically
discarded and when it comes on screen
again the application gets a redraw
message and to rebuild the content so
whenever possible if you should use that
most times it's far cheaper to redraw
the content of the window than swapping
it back in from a small file okay let's
talk about drawing
well the key message about drawing is in
today's world graphic speed is
essentially a function of memory
bandwidth it's the number of pixels you
touch it doesn't really matter anymore
what you're actually doing with each of
these pixels so the first thing you want
to avoid is multiple drawing like you
draw your window with you fill it with a
pin stripe pattern and then you put a
big white rectangle on top of it to have
a background for your text so if you can
avoid the pinstripe drawing at the first
place that is a nice performance game
and the other thing that ties in with
the architecture of the window server
reminds me before is avoid unnecessary
flashing so whenever you're done with
the drawing something that message gets
sent to the window server to sell well
put to tell it well put this stuff on
screen now it's fairly common a fairly
common bug that you flush too often you
have essentially your drawing is half
done and then somewhere in your code
have a flash happens and what that means
is unfinished drawing appears on screen
and then right after that the complete
drawing shows up causing flickering so
you want to avoid try to avoid that as
much as possible now one nice thing
about Windows Server is all updates you
do are synced to the CRT beam so you
really get totally smooth graphics if
you play in animation you get the exact
25 Hertz of your monitor or whatever and
that's the reason why dragging the
window around on OS 10 is really smooth
however this can backfire for you if you
flush too much that mechanism will
actually ensure that the unfinished
drawing stays on screen for long enough
for the user to notice so it might be
good to good idea to look at that so in
today's world or as 10 point oh point X
when the buffers live in main memory but
however it is a good idea not to rely on
that there may be changes coming to move
windows the window buffers on the
graphics card or maybe they get
compressed or any other performance
optimizations we might think of so
relying on that the fact that the window
buffer is in my memory today is not such
a future proof proof strategy so what
you want to avoid is touching the window
bits directly whenever possible use
quick-draw QuickTime quartz 3d to
produce your content so this here on the
slides essentially getting the port for
your window and then the pics base
address that's whenever possible you
should avoid that well there are
definitely cases where you have to so I
can't imagine if you write an emulator
for something then you probably want to
produce your own bits so if you do we'd
like to hear from you maybe we may come
up with some API to enable that without
breaking the programs optimizations
you're going to do in the future okay
word about the velocity engine
understand we have a certain number of
functions inside the graphic system that
are optimized for the g4 and this gives
in some cases really significant speed
ups in fact whenever we go and vectorize
one of these routines we usually get
more than 2x out of it and in some
extreme cases we saw something like
17x speedups well for you for your
drawing to actually make use of that
there's essentially one hints to give
here which is whenever you produce your
own bitmaps like you create the CG
bitmap context or you create a cricketer
or
gee world and then hand that to the
graphic system make the robots a
multiple of 16 which is the vector
length on g4 chip that will enable more
optimizations to kick in and as a side
effect of that because there are
routines that are significantly faster
do test your software on the g3 as well
not just your chief or developer machine
if you have interactive graphics going
on which is really nice on g4 it might
be that you may be that you're actually
triggering one of these optimization and
it's dark slow or g3 so it's worth
verifying that okay now I'm going to do
a demo about how to find performance
issues on your system I get rid of this
so in your developer folder there is a
little application called quartz debug
it says this colorful window here and
enables you need to activate some
switches inside the window server that
will give you some debugging hints
simple text here okay the first switch
here is flash screen updates which means
which tells the window server whenever
it puts something on screen flash the
area briefly in yellow to brick make it
very visible where updates are happening
so for example if I switch over to
simple text here you see there's some
flickering going on and when I move the
window around you see there are certain
areas that get updated now I'm using
simple text here because simple text has
an interesting performance bug so when
I've type here you see it redraws the
entire window for every character type
so this mechanism makes it blatantly
visible where your performance problem
are and why your key repeat rate is
really slow so this helps a lot in
finding these kinds of problems because
to be at the window of the window
contents are buffered it's not much hard
to see you no longer see flickering on
screen usually if the flash is in the
right place so this is the mechanism to
counteract that effect and tell you
what's going on another switch here is
all flush drawing which essentially
activates whenever a primitive is drawn
either to quick draw or to court CD we
flush immediately this is like the
immediate mode drawing you'll see on OS
9 so if you combine that with the flash
screen updates then you actually see
every single primitive and you see
there's a lot of flickering going on the
menu gets redrawn and stuff like that so
this makes your system really really
slow as you can see
but it helps you to detect some things
like duplicate drawing if an area
flashes twice then you know well okay
there is probably something going wrong
here okay so if I switch back you see
yes the fireworks still going on okay
another thing that allows you to that
quartz debug allows you to do is look at
the window list in the system so let's
get rid of this it's probably bit small
but these are all the windows the
windows overseas and there is the things
like well size on screen size in memory
position and the name of the app that
produces that produced that window so
for example the top three here say
quartz debug app there is one window
which is 22 pixels high and test the
width of the entire screen which is the
menu bar on the top there is another
window down here which is 300 by 200
something which is this nice little
picture here and there's a third window
interestingly which is 19 by 19 pixels
now this is AB gate caching that little
checkbox here so which is internally
implemented as an off-screen window so
look at your application using the show
window list feature here and find out if
there are windows that are off-screen
and if they're big try to get rid of
them because you don't really want to
end them and them to end up in the swap
file ok that's it for the demo if you
can go back to the slides
that's please thanks okay now I'd like
to invite Travis brown back up before we
get to the Q&A I just want to take a
quick time to go over the last item on
our roadmap at WWC relating to graphics
and we have at two o'clock in room j-1
the graphics feedback for them this is a
very important forum for you to come and
tell us feedback on mac OS x graphics
technologies it's a good opportunity to
you know query us on to why certain
elements the architecture implemented
differently from what you experienced in
our mac os9
additionally provide your feedback and
features and things you would like to
see in the system if you need my contact
information I'm Travis brown at
apple.com I can be reached if you have
questions about any of the 2d graphics
technologies in Mac OS 10 feel free to
send me emails
you